Now we're going to look at environment variables.
Environment variables are basically,
environment variables that have some value specific
to this machine or whatever machine you're running
your code on.
Now this is really useful for having one configuration
for like your development machine
and another configuration for your production machine
and there are already environment variables
on this machine.
I can see them by typing in the, and I notice now
every single environment variable that this machine has.
I can give you a preview of some of those.
I'm just piping it less because I don't want to show you
all of my environment variables because I tend to have
some secret keys on this machine as well.
You can see that I separate by on the left side
tends to be upper case.
This is the environment variable name
and this is the environment variable value.
So down here we can see path which we met
in earlier screen cast and we can also echo out $PATH.
So the environment variable name is without a dollar
but in the shell if we want to print it,
I'm going to use echo which just means print this value
to screen and I put a dollar in front of the variable name
and it will print out the full path.
If there's no variable like PORT it'll just be blank
because there's no value in it
and these environment variables are actually
really useful for development like I said
and in particular you can actually set them
on the command line temporarily for the duration
of that programme.
So something that's really common for me to do
when I'm developing kind of a node programme,
the same I would presume with any kind of Python
or Ruby or anything else, you can set the environment
variable on the command line.
So you can do things like this, PORT=3000
and then you run your programme.
So I would run node index.js
and inside of my index.js file I will be able
to look into the environment and it will see
that PORT has a value of 3000.
And I've just made this little script
that will echo out $PORT, exactly the same as what
we just did in the command line but this is a programme
that will look at its environment.
So when I run this by itself, by doing sh or shell
there's no value, but if I do PORT=3000
and then do run the programme again,
you can see that now there is this temporary PORT value.
It hasn't effected my, oops, it hasn't effected my
current environment, my current shell.
It only exists for the duration
that this programme is running.
So you can see we can change that
and it's able to read that value.
This is really, really useful for when,
like I said you're doing development.
This is a really common patent that I use.
I will literally just do PORT=3001 node, off I go,
node index.js and I'll be able
to read that environment variable.